---
title: Keyword & Type
type: guide
order: 31
---


## COStream Language Keywords

The COStream languge has the same keywords of `the C programming language`, as it adopts the C languge syntaxes. In addition, it has extra keywords to build the `flow graph`.
>COStream Extra Keywords
```
composite, param, input, output, stream
splitjion, split, duplicate, roundrobin, join, pipeline, add
operator, init, work, window, sliding, tumbling 
```
>C Language keywords
```
auto break case char const continue
default do double else enum extern
float for goto if int long
register return short signed sizeof static
struct switch typedef union unsigned void
volatile while
```

## Basic Data Types

COStream supports all basic data types of the C programming language, except pointer types.

## Stream Data Type 

COStream introduces a new data type `stream`.A stream is a sequence of a series of stream `tokens`, which acts as communication carriers to connect to each actor in the flow graph and provides parallelizable data objects to these actors. The token mentioned above is a composite data, on which operations are mainly performed. You don't need to know how storages arrange these streams, as it is hidden and it is independent of the underlying hardware implementation.

The stream declaration representing the token is called `stream variable`, which is similar to the C language structure and can include any basic C data types (int, float, double, etc.), string types (string) and basic type arrays.Attention that stream type must be defined before being used, following the C language grammar specification.

### Stream Type Definition
The Backus-Naur Form(BNF) of stream type statements is expressed as follows：
```
streamType ::= ‘stream’‘<’streamBody‘>’
streamBody ::= baseTypeDecl+,
             | ( streamType | ID )+,
```
Specific Examples：
```c++
stream<int i> S1                    //1
stream<int i, float f, double d> S2 //2
stream<int a[4]> S3                 //3
stream<int i, stream<float f>> S4   //4
```
Lines 1, 2, 3, 4 represent the basic stream variable declaration，which begins with the "stream" keyword，includes members of token with “<”、“>”, and finally adds the name of the stream variable。As shown in lines 1, 2, 3，a token includes a single member or multiple members of base types, string types, and array types.Line 4 represents an iterative form of stream variable declaration, and its equivalent representation is `stream<int i, float f> S4`.

### Stream Type Data Access Method
A stream variable is a collection of tokens and it can be accessed by subscript, which is similar to accessing an array of C language. Take line 2 as an example, S2[i].f accesses the ith token's float member f, and S2[j].d accesses the jth token's double member d.
