---
title: Streaming Data Process
type: guide
order: 32
---

##    operator definition

The component and computing unit in the **COStream** is the *operator*, which represents a computing node in the data flow graph. The `operator` defines the input stream and the output stream of the `actor`, and specific computational processing.

As shown in the following code, the `operator` consists of a *header definition* and a *body definition*. The `operator` defines the input and output streams for processing. The `operator` body includes variable declarations and definitions, `init`, `work`, and `window`. `work` is required. The rest is optional.
```c++
stream<int i>S;
S = Source(){
    //variable declarations and definitions
    int x;
    int y=3;
    //init
    init{
        x=0;
    }
    //work
    work{
        s[0].i=x;
        x++;
    }
    //window
    window{
        S tumbling(1);
    }
};
```
Similar to the **C** language's functional syntax, each `operator` consists of a *header* and a *body* part, and its BNF can be expressed as:
```
opInvoke ::= opInvokeHeadop InvokeBody
```
### 1.operator head definition
The head *opInvokeHead* defines the name of the `operator` and the input and output stream that the `operator` uses for calculation and communication. The BNF is expressed as:
```
opInvokeHead    ::= opOutputs ‘=’ ID opInputs | ID opInputs
opOutputs	  ::= streamID |‘(’ streamID+, ‘)’
opInputs	  ::= streamID |‘(’ streamID +, ‘)’
streamID	  ::= streamType ID | ID
```
For example, the *Aveverer* described above has an input stream of **S** and an output stream of **P**. The complete header is represented as:
```c++
P = Averager(S){ // opInvokeHead
                  …// opInvokeBody
               }
```
>Multiple input and multiple output operator support
>Different from **StreamIt**, in addition to single-input and single-output streams, **COStream**'s `operator` also supports >multiple input and multiple output of stream. The specific usage is as follows:
```
(O1,O2,O3,O4,O5) = MyOperator(IN1,IN2,IN3,IN4,IN5)
{
…
}
```
Multiple output streams must be defined separately and enclosed in `( )`; similarly, multiple input stream are also defined separately.

### 2.Operator body definition
The main part of the `operator` is contained in `{` and `}`, which defines the specific operation process of the `operator`. Its BNF representation is as follows:
```
opInvokeBody ::=  '{'
                    ( declaration+ ) *
                    ( ‘init’ opInvokeInitWork+) ?
                    ( ‘work’ opInvokeInitWork+)
                    ( ‘window’ opInvokeWindow+) ?
                  '}'
opInvokeInitWork ::= stmt
opInvokeWindow ::=  '{'
                      opInvokeWindowBody? ;
                    '}'
opInvokeWindowBody ::=  ID ‘sliding’  '(' (expr ‘,‘ expr)? ')'
                      | ID ‘tumbling' '(' expr? ')'
````
The body of the `operator` includes the declaration and definition of variables, `init`, `work`, and `window`. `work` is required, and the rest is optional.

##   Variable declaration and definition

Variable declarations and definitions are similar to the **C** language's static grammar. These declared variables are static variables within the `operator`.

>**The scope of the declared variable in state:**  
>The variables in *state* can be accessed by statements in the `init` function and the `work` function, and the scope is the entire `operator`. 

##  init

The `init` function represents the  `operator`'s initialization process, which is a block statement that can contain any programmer-defined variable declarations and statements, and is executed only when the `operator` is first executed.

##   work,window and stream

### 1. work
The `work` function represents the most fine-grained operation part of the `operator`. It is a block statement and can contain any programmer-defined variable declarations and statements. It is the core structure of the `operator` and the execution unit of each calculation in the steady-state execution of the data flow program. The `work` function contains operations on the  input stream and output stream of the `operator`.

### 2. window
The `window` structure specifies type and size of the input stream and output stream used for each execution of the `work` function. There are two types of windows: `sliding` and `tumbling`.

`Sliding` represents the type of sliding window. This window type has two parameters. The first specifies the length of the sliding window. The second specifies the distance for each sliding. The unit is the number of data items in the data stream. For example, `S sliding(10,1);` indicates that a sliding window is defined on the stream **S**, and the length is 10 data items. After each execution of the `work` function, the length of one data item is swept backward.

`Tumbling` represents the flip window type. This window takes only one parameter and specifies the window length. For example, `T tumbling (10);` indicates that a tumbling window is defined on the stream **T**, and the window length is 10 data items. After each execution of the `work` function, 10 data in the window are cleared. For the input stream, it means that 10 data is consumed, and the subsequent data in the input stream will enter the window; for the output stream, it means that the generated data has filled the window and will be all output to the output stream, and the subsequent generated data will be continuing to fill the window.

In general, `sliding` window is often used for input stream, and `tumbling` window is often used for output stream.

>**Work function is executed by window trigger mechanism:**    
That is, the `work` function will only execute when the data fills the window, otherwise the `operator` will wait until there is enough data.

### 3. Streaming data access
The `operator` input stream and output stream data can only be accessed in the *work* function. 

For each component of the stream data item, an access method similar to the structure component in the **C** language is used, which is implemented by taking the `.` operation of the component. For example, we use `stream<int x, int y> S;` to define a stream,then `S[0].x` represents the x component in the data item with the subscript 0 in the `window` of **S**.
